hello Community today today we do
something that I have no idea of I'm
looking for Publications today in EI
that I do not understand just looking at
them reading the abstract tells me
almost nothing and you know what's the
beauty we can learn because today I will
leave my bubble and I show you somei
papers I have to learn in the afternoon
I have to sit down and read those papers
so let's start here planning with owld
DL
ontologies and you might say hey that
sounds good so where are we we are in
robotics systems for automated planning
compute plans for a planning domain
which defines a set of available actions
we Noti this that describe how states of
a system can be modified our robotic
sync a planning problem can consist of
an initial State a domain of objects and
a goal that needs to be reached for
which the planet computes a plan in the
form of sequence of action that would
lead from the initial state to the state
satisfying the goals we have here a
closed World semantics meaning yes yes
yes you know ontologies are widely used
the formalism for describing complex
domain knowledge under the open world
semantics here we assume our knowledge
of the world to be generally incomplete
exactly like my knowledge today so the
antology defines terminology and the
background knowledge relevant for the
application scenario which allows to
infer new information from an incom
complete description of the
world so let's start in the abstract so
we know they here University of Oslo and
the F University from Amsterdam we
introduce ontology mediated planning in
which planning problems are combined
with an
ontology this goes beyond what existing
approaches combined automated planning
with ontologist can do which only
support limited description logic such
as Dr Light and description logic that
or horn now the main point now is the
main algorithm that they propose relies
on reiting of the ontology based
planning specification into
pddl so that existing planning system
can be used to solve them and they use a
this now you know me when I started yes
we we use books at the University I know
that my younger generation say what is a
book but you know I remember he a book o
descriptive logic based onology language
for the semantic web and I had to look
up in the book here the DL syntax so I
had to look about the descriptive logic
syntax here because okay you see here
nice and then if we scroll down so the
descriptive the data range the
properties individual and data value use
and here on the next page by the way
this is a book by hars Patel Schneider
Guinness and valty we have here the DL
syntax here the aoms and the facts so if
you learn this you have an idea okay but
what we are dealing here but for my
younger generation you don't need a BG
you just go to chat GPD to the latest
0808 version and I told them hey can you
explain at the topic of logic the term
wld DL and what does it mean rewrites
here the ontology mediated planning
specification into
pddl then you get here beautiful AR web
ontology language descriptive logic it's
a sublanguage of the web ontology
language yes descriptive Logic
expressiveness pddl the planning domain
definition language ontology mediated
planning refers to the integration of
ontological knowledge into the planning
process in EI planning in EI is is now
something that is suddenly here in a
kind of a mathematical form of logic and
is not as easy as you thought so all the
requests got from people that said hey I
just entering University or my second
semester in mathematics or theoretical
physics or computer science and we are
learning here stuff that I don't see any
ey well now is the time now eii
evolves that now we use all these new
new quotation mark mathematical ideas
forms logic new languages to implement
our new ideas in AI because the easy
phase of eii is done we have explored
this phace and now we need here the more
advanced let's say University level
ideas and now we apply those into the DI
research so therefore if you study
mathematics right now yes you combine
this beautifully now with computer
science
EI so rewriting ontology immediated
planning specification into pddl and it
gives you here exactly what it looks
like and this is here the power of chat
GPT and I use it to to learn to educate
myself on topics I have long forgotten
okay so provides a formal framework for
representing complex domain knowledge
using description logic when this is
used in AI planning in ontology mediated
planning it often needs to be translated
into a pddl format to be processed by
existing planning tools so the term
rewriting of onology mediated planning
specification in the pddl refers to this
translation process where the rich
expressive construct of the L are
converted into the more structured
action oriented language of pddl
ensuring that the resulting plans are
consistent with the original ontological
n
knowledge and then for my green grass up
said hey can you explain the ontology
relation in the term ontology mediated
planning and it goes on and explain what
is an anology Nei a formal specification
of the concept of the entities and
relationship within a specific domain it
provides a shared vocabulary and a set
of rules or axioms that describe how
these concepts are related ontologies
are typically used to model comp Le Lex
domains in a way that both humans and
machine can understand you have classes
properties
instances and it explains you this
beautifully so the power to use jet gbt
is you don't have to look it up in your
old books from Stanford here for example
but you have it available of course you
don't know here if CH GPT is not
hallucinating and you don't have it in a
detail that is maybe available in some
books so it depends but I think this is
a nice application of J
G beautiful classes relationship
constraint yes yes yes okay so you see
and then if we have or if I have now
first understanding what is going on in
this AI publication I think okay now I
understand here the term ontology mediat
planning specification as a new
framework for linking the planning
problems with
ontologies and then I can start to read
and then it gets rather complicated but
this is a beautiful publication
therefore I would like to show you this
publication they specify what is an
action here they say what is a planning
domain in mathematical details they give
you here the definition the description
logic and the ontology they Define this
and then they Define here the framework
for their ontology mediated planning and
if you have a look at this here an
ontology mediated planning specification
is a topple of and then you can jump
right into this plus evaluation
conclusion proofs and lammer if you
really want to dive into the mathematics
they have all of this available for you
so this is the way how I will learn here
in the afternoon hopefully I'm
intelligent enough to understand this
what is going on in robotics now for the
planning domain and you see it is not
anymore our simple mathematic
understanding but now we need here some
consistent mathematical theory that we
have already from statistical and
mathematical and whatever applications
and we now use this here for the next
step
Nei beautiful so next thing I would like
to show you is a power consistent
framework and here the abductive
reasoning in a power consistent
framework we here University of bordo
the Japanese French laboratory for
informatics and National Institute of
informatics Tokyo
Japan I have something about par
consistent wait a second because what
like and I say to tb4 explain the
meaning of a classical inconsistent
Theory by adopting a power consistent
framework so goes on grasp the meaning
yes it is s the concept of classical
inconsist consistency power consistent
logic and how to adopt a power
consistent framework that allows for
Meaningful reasoning with inconsistent
theories so you see we have here our
classical mathematical logic where you
cannot have both to be true this means p
and
nonp then we have an inconsistent Theory
this is a theory considered inconsistent
if it contains at least one
contradiction this means there's one
statement P that both p and nonp are
derivable within this particular
inconsistent Theory and then we have the
explosion principle or xile quot Li in
the classical logic from a contradiction
any statement can be derived this is
known as the principle of
explosion but now paraconsistent logic
is a non-classical logic framework
designed to handle contradiction in a
controlled manner beautiful this this
clear and simple explanation by CH tb4
if you starting this is really nice
so unlike classical Logic power
consistent logic rejects the principle
of explosion allowing theories to be
inconsistent without becoming trivial
and this is not
trivial we have our key feature our
applications and therefore adopting a
paraconsistent framework for
inconsistent theories so when faced with
a classical inconsistent Theory classic
C is a little bit stretch but okay
meaning a set of statements that lead to
contradiction under the classical logic
one might still want to extract
meaningful information from it without
succumbing to
triviality framework adoption yes yes
yes
example okay so a power consistent
framework medical practitioner can
recognize the inconsistency regarding
the patient's fever status but still
make meaningful decisions based on the
other consistent information in the
database
conclusion strategy of handling a set of
contradictory stat ments inconsistent
Theory by imploring a logical system a
power consistent logic that allows for
contradiction without descending into
logical chaos where any and effort
statement becomes provable this approach
facilitates meaningful reasoning and
Analysis and the presence of
inconsistencies which is invaluable in
complex real world scenarios where
perfect consistency is simply
unattainable so now I have an idea where
I am what is a paraconsistent framework
and now we go to abductive reasoning so
we're here talking about the reasoning
procedures in thei but now in a
paraconsistent
framework and you might say okay this is
beautiful so how should we code this
well beautiful thing is this has already
been done for you but we have to
understand what is going on here because
the proof what is going on this is
beautiful we have done the proof Pro of
proposition one and the proof of
proposition two and then we have the LMA
the falling Lama yes beautiful so you
see this is now a kind of let's call
it not so simple mathematics that we
apply now to EI where the classical
coder the classical people who use and
apply EI might not be
immediately powerful enough to apply
this knowledge and this is why I say
this AI 2.0 where now the universities
where the students of mathematics the
students of computer science now they
will shine now it is their time to drive
EI further from a simplified AI
understanding now to a new level but I
was here at a very abstract I did not
understand even the abstract so I have
to learn a little bit so let's make it a
little bit bigger here we explored a
problem of explaining observations
starting from a classical inconsistent
Theory now we know what it is by
adopting a paraconsistent framework now
I know what this is we consider two
expansion of the well-known bnip D par
consistent four valued
logic okay I need either my book so at
gbt 4 so you see this is how learning
something new
starts and adoption in the balab D Logic
the agent is only that f is true the
agent is only told that f is false the
agent is told that f is false and that
it is
true and you see oh yeah here here it
goes so beautiful so here we have now
our if you want logic explained and why
and how this is working and I have no
idea just looking at this I can tell you
I don't understand a thing but you
should and if you enter University if
you plan to go to university for
computer science or mathematic or
theoretical physics this is what you
should be familiar with this is the
Future Okay on we go we have new another
publication I would like to show you
let's make it a little bit bigger so we
can both see it the department of
statistical science the University
College of London UK so here we go a
general framework for constraint-based
causal learning and it's not this simple
cause of learning that we know from
chain of sword or tree of sword or our
little childish attempts to use here the
theory of causal interpretation and
causal learning in AI now really we have
here our experts that are sitting around
the university and saying hey how can I
contribute to the the development of EI
2.0 and now they bring their ideas in
and we have to understand these ideas
because sometimes we maybe have to work
with these ideas and apply those ideas
so we are here at causal Discovery and
graphical models so let's dive into a
general framework for constraint based
causal learning and let's enter here the
main goal of graph-based causal
inference is causal Discovery given data
we would like to uncover the underlying
causal structure in the form of a true
causal graph on which conveniently
graph-based causal inference techniques
hinge we will mostly be concerned with
the setting of observational data such
as when random control trials are
unavailable the true graph yes in this
work we will provide a framework which
encompasses condition under which all
constraint based causal learning
algorithm work along with providing such
condition given any
algorithm from the framework we provide
exact conditions for when the PC
algorithms work and relate them to
correctness condition of some other
algorithms and we show that the sparest
M of representation condition is the
weakest correctness condition yeah so I
have to start here what is a PC
algorithm and no it does not stand for
personal computer but it stands here for
pet clog algorithm this is a popular
constraint based method that constructs
a causal graph by iteratively testing
conditional independencies and removing
edges from a fully connected graph and
then we have the SGS algorithm
beautiful also tests to construct a
causal graph the working principle I
explained what is a true causal graph
graphical separation putting it all
together you see this is really how I
use EI to help me understand new stuff
in my learning how you can use it don't
go with Jud gbt go with any system you
like but the nice thing with Jud gbt for
example is it has been trained on those
old statistical physical mathematical
data from all the books here that was
published and they simply have available
this this kind of knowledge that I need
to be able to follow here this
introduction for graphical models I'll
denote a graph for a finite set of notes
we will consider three types of edges
directed undirected and bidirected edges
the classical one there's the definition
what is a p Pi between the notes I is
the sequence of note that for all the
notes is yes yes
yes okay and graph is a set of notes
contain
yeah an anest well graph following the
Omission yes does not satisfy this
General setting for causal learning and
here we start now so let g0 be a true
causal graph which we wish to partially
recover from observation distribution P
which is induced from g0 the main goal
of caal learning is to use observational
data from the distribution P to the
recover graph that belongs to the Mec of
g0 you see this I do not understand just
by looking at it so I have to sit down
read the paper and this will take
minimum an hour maybe an afternoon
because I am not that intelligent but
never mind I will leave my bubble I will
try to learn something new and I think
just want to show you how I fail why I
fail the way I fail how I try to
compensate here for my nonn knowledge
that I have how I can learn new stuff
but you have to do better you have to
know about this about my failure and you
should learn from my mistake and this is
why I do this why I want to leave my
bubble and I got some comments hey it
seems that you are not really familiar
with some of the new AI publication that
you present absolutely I have not even a
minimum s what they are talking and why
they are talking about this but you know
it is so fascinating to learn something
new okay this was it for this
one let's go here for yeah that's a
beautiful
one let me give
second linear traces no operation
research is coming up NP complete why
set is coming up here we go here we go
here we go here we
go what is on set programming so we are
here now with onet programming and we
are optimizing a dynamic traffic
distribution for urban networks
beautiful publication here University of
Genova Italy University of Calabria
University of Calabria University of
Huddersfield
UK so let's have a word answer set
programming no idea what it is and
optimization problem okay and a traffic
distribution this is our real world
application so avoiding congestion and
controlling traffic in urban scenarios
is becoming nowadays of utmost important
due to the rapid growth in our City's
population and the vehicle the effective
control of urban traffic as a means to
mitigate congestion can be beneficial in
economic environmental and health and
yes yes yes so how we do this in this
paper we present an application in which
also said programming has been
successfully used in the context of
dynamic traffic distribution for urban
networks within a more General framework
devised for solving such a real world
problem within the framework ASP is
employed for representing and reasoning
about the optimization of the flow of
the traffic inside the road Network by
finding the best combination of routs
for all vehicles and the network
beautiful background onet programming
yes yes yes you get here the beautiful
definition or I just went here to Jet
GPT and I said hey I don't know what is
ASP onet programming a form of
declarative programming that is used to
solve difficult primly NP hard
combinatorial search problems based on
the logic programming Paradigm and is
closely related to non-monotonic
reasoning where the truth value of
statement can change based on the
introduction of new
information and you might say hey
great yeah that this is what I have to
learn yeah another afternoon but yeah
enjoy it come on answer set is
essentially a set of literals of atoms
that represent the possible solution
setting finding all the rule and
constraints of the program particular
well Ed for problem where the goal is to
find all possible solution such is as in
configuration problems in scheduling
planning and more basic components atoms
the basic building blocks representing
basic facts or proposition the literals
atoms or negation rules logical
statement constraints restrict possible
answer set by specific condition that
must not be true answer set code and I
said here give me just an example and
gives me an example writes here a short
ASP program explains here the code
running the code expected output of the
code so nice to have here this available
powerful tool for solving complex commor
Problems by encoding them as a logic
program ASP program defines the problems
in terms of rules and constraints on the
ASP solver yep yep yep generates all
possible solution that satisfy this
condition okay so very nice you see
where EI is going for and in my other
days here I showed you for urban
trafficking routing uh optimization
problems the simple optimization
problems but you see now more and more
we are moving here to a little bit more
advanced application of mathematical
statistical
physical modeling that is not as simple
to understand at least not for me
because I'm a little bit stupid on we go
now we go to probabilistic answer set
programs via a residual program and here
they're looking here Department of
Environmental and preventive Sciences
let's make it a little bit bigger so we
all can see it beautiful Italy seems
that Italy is very interested here in
the traffic
optimization they say hey we want to
compute the probability of a query from
a probabilistic answer set program some
parts of the program may not influence
the probability of a query but the
impact on the size of the
grounding
okay paper has been accepted at a
conference on the consideration in
theory and practice of logic programming
hey hey hey statistic IAL relational
artificial intelligence inference and
tabling statistical relational
artificial intelligence is a subfield of
artificial intelligence aiming at
presenting uncertain domains with
interpretable languages one of these
languages is probabilistic onet
programming passp under the credle
semantics onet programming in the use of
the Eon yeah in fact yes inter specific
case yes beautiful
possibility of returning the residual
program which can then be used to
computer answer of the program this
looks interesting you see I have no idea
just reading this I have to sit down in
the afternoon and just go step by step
background we consider normal logic
programs God I'm so happy that they
start here with the basic
here stable model semantics
1988 my goodness I have such missing
parts in my knowledge okay following
rules well-founded semantics
1999 91 assign a fre model my goodness
okay I think you get the idea and I'm
looking to another I've but on we go and
currently I don't know why but answer
said programming today looking at August
14 2024 is really a Hot Topic this is
the third publication that that I found
and I specifically selected to show you
what I do not know where I have
here real problems understanding here
from my AI
knowledge Nagoya University Japan
University poam in Dand Kuba University
Japan Nagoya University
Japan okay where are we combinatorial
reconfiguration is a relative young
research field of increasing interest in
an International Community the aim of
combinatorial configuration is to
analyze the structure and property of
the solution spaces of combinatorial
problems nice so this topical this
typical topics of the field include
reachability optim ability diameter and
connectivity of the solution space each
solution space has a graph structure in
which each node represent an individual
feasible solution and the edges
represent a certain adjacent relation
it sounds absolutely fascinating I do
not understand anything about this this
is not in my knowledge tool boox so I
have to learn
this
okay okay
let let me show you that I have more
problems in knowing anything about and
now we go some some beautiful we have
here that we all know agent in EI
beautiful so Advanced reasoning and
learning for autonomous e and this is
what we are going for we don't want our
stupid agent where recode this or where
they have some list of Lang chains we
want to have fully autonomous self-
deciding
agents the AGI comp AGI company wow and
Stanford University okay now I know why
I selected this paper for you today well
we were're here with propose a framework
that combines guided Monte Carlo
research very old one with a
self-critique mechanism we know this
systems that critique itself and
iterative fine-tuning on the agent
interaction using an off policy variant
of the DPO algorithm I have videos on
both so we are familiar with this our
method allows llm agents to learn
effectively from both successful and
unsuccessful trajectories by improving
their generalization in complex
multi-step reasoning task hey finally
multi-step reasoning we validate our
approach and beautiful
beautiful okay what's a 340% relative
increase hey that sounds interesting so
this is just to relax this is something
that we know this is something beautiful
it doesn't seem to be too complicated
because we have simply here monol
research on a DPO algorithm that we
optimize together so just relax this was
a little break now we are back to three
set now in Europe This is a TV channel
but no we are not talking about
simplicities we are talking here no the
researcher here from the center of
Applied autonomous sensor
system uh Ur University in Sweden and
the department of computer science at at
louan in Belgium they talk here
about reasoning and computational
complexity
Theory now I do not know what is sad so
luckily CH TBT knows all about it as I
explained this and I said here this is
the prototypical NP complete problem
that lies at the core of logical
reasoning and constraint satisfactory
task three sat short for three
satisfiability is a specific type of
pool satisfiability problem which is
Central in theoretical computer science
so if you study computer science you say
hey that's easy I know this from
University congratulation I have to
learn this satisfiable problem General
set problem ask whether there exists an
assignment of True Value true or false
to variables in a Bo formula such that
the entire formula evaluates to true the
B formula is expressed in a conjugative
normal form where the formula is a
conjunction of several Clauses and each
Clause is a disjunction of exactly three
literals a literal is either variable or
it's
negation an example of a Tre set formula
is this one here
beautiful H task is to determine whether
there's a way to assign true or false to
each variable from X1 to X4 such that
the entire formula is true this is
beautiful this is a kind of an
optimization problem that I like it's an
NP complete problem
nice so MP complete problems are the
hardest problems in mp meaning that you
can if you can solve an MP complete
problem in polinomial time you can solve
all NP problems in polinomial
time very f a given solution for reset
can be done in polinomial time as hard
as yes prod problem
is yes yes yes core of logical reasoning
and constraint satisfaction three side
lies at the heart of two important areas
logical reasoning this is exactly what
we are looking here can lm's model
reason but now in a little bit more
advanced mathematical
formulation res that encapsulate core
aspects of logical deduction where we
need to find a consistent truth
assignment that satisfies all given
logical constraint or logical Clauses in
a broader sense many problems in Ai and
computer science involve finding
solution that satisfy a set of
constraints absolutely so sad is a
quintessential example of such a
constraint satisfaction
problem wow
okay three side is deeply connected to
logical reasoning and a broader class of
constraint satisfaction problems making
it a Cornerstone in understanding
computational complexity and algorithm
design now you say hey this sounds great
so we use now this kind of insight to
answer the question can llms model
reason and we do not just fine-tune any
llm
and have a look at it no we are now a
little bit more deeper into the
mathematics into computational
complexity Theory and I hope you know
more about this than I do because I have
to learn this yes I know it's a
disaster s said face transition now this
is theoretical physics and I say hey I
know about pH transition so this should
be approachable to
me oh wow
okay congratulations I won I have a
feeling it's a little bit different the
statement but okay we have solvers
nice can llm solve yes you have to look
at this publication by this research
team I'm not going to tell you what is
the answer I want to make it a little
bit more interesting for you if you
watch this here
so let's go now for operation research
for complex operations research using
here our natural language inputs and I
have this right here and I ask you J gbt
explain the term operation research in
this sentence operation research or uses
mathematical models to enhance decision
making so you say ah we are now we are
going now from
explainability we are going now to
enhance decision making by our AI system
and we have here Microsoft and the
University of Memphis in
Tennessee operation research automated
mathematical programming llms sounds
fascinating operation research uses
mathematical models to enhance
decisionmaking but developing this model
required expert knowledge and can be
time consuming automated mathematical
programming has emerged to simplify this
process nice but existing systems have
limitation like my brain so this paper
introduces a novel methodology that uses
recent advances in llms to create an
edit operation research solution from
nonexpert user queries Express expressed
using natural language hey I think I
should be able to understand this paper
and I hope that you get it immediately
just looking at it I have to study
it operation research as a field has
been widely used to enhance decision
making by creating and using
mathematical models of real world
situation to find
solution
okay sounds
interesting we are the first to handle
abstract or model creation and editing
okay automatic Sol triage sounds
absolutely fascinating
okay yeah I said hey why be so simple
today because some reply by my audience
was hey you only show us the simply ey
papers are there not some papers that
are a little bit more
challenging I'm so glad you ask you know
because I think I have some other paper
for you here we go I found it I found it
yes linear temporal logic over finite
traces here we have a paper China China
Oxford Singapore China China China and
Rice University so we have here
publication software and engineering
formal methods theory of computation
automated reasoning modal and temporal
logic and you might say that sounds
fascinating so here we go on the Fly
synthesis for LTL over finite traces an
efficient approach that counts and I do
not know what is LTL and why we operate
over finite traces so let's go and have
a look and we make it a little bit
bigger yes wees an on defly synthesis
framework for linear temporal logic over
finite traces based on top- down de
ministic automat
construction help so I turn over to J
GPT and I say what is a linear temporal
logic over finite
traces a type of modal temporal logic
that allows reasoning about sequences of
events or States over time now this
sounds easy it's widely used in computer
science particular in the very ification
and specification of systems where it
helps Express properties about the
ordering of events ah so let's have a
look we have a linear time in LTL time
is considered linear to no special
relativity my goodness meaning that at
any point in time there's exactly one
possible future this makes it different
from branching time Logics where
multiple Futures might be possible for a
given point so we are in the easy
solution yippe
temporal operators include several
temporal operators that Express
properties about how proposition relate
over time next over finite traces is a
variant of the standard LTL tailored for
reasoning about finite sequence of event
also known as finite traces ah
okay this is now in cont with the
classical LTL which is normally over
infinite traces sequences that continue
indefinitely no we looking here for
finite
traces especially for system testing
it's good if it's finite finite sequence
temporal operators again terminal State
examples here consider a finer trace of
a system States and you want to express
that certain condition a should hold
globally and condition B eventually
occurs within that
Trace I I get an idea what it
is is a variant of a linear temporal
logic designed for reasoning about
sequences of event or states that have a
finite length over finite traces well
suited for practical application where
system behavior is observed or verified
over bounded periods the temporal
operators retain their standard meaning
but adapted to the context of finite
sequences making this logic a powerful
tool for specifying and verifying
temporal properties in finite
domains wow this is completely outside
of my bubble I hope you know this I hope
you are famili familiar with this and I
hope you can apply this for causal
reasoning and time sequences and and and
so a new framework for linear temporal
logic over finite
traces my goodness okay I think this is
it with the little bit more challenging
AI papers of today so now relax we are
coming now into the simple AI papers and
let's start with some trivialities here
brain magnetic resonance imagery and how
we can improve this and we want a new
anatomical Foundation model for brain
MRIs now everybody is talking about New
Foundation models for anatomically brain
MRIs and I don't know I've seen about 30
40 Foundation models in today I think
it's kind about more than 300 EI
preprints that Google replied to me so
Foundation model go for eing
today what are we talking
about contrastive learning methods okay
we extend the capabilities of existing
contrastive learning approaches by
incorporating additional anatomical
measures into the loss function we
propose here a contrastive learning
framework that builds upon previous work
that aous patient age as a proxy
metadata and also includes information
derived from anatomical measures such as
the sickness of some
cical
elements okay so we just okay I see
what's going on this is
nice gstream analysis schizophrenia
Alzheimer oh great so an extended
contrastive approach that leverages
anatomical information in brain
MRIs including age of the patient and
specific anatomical feature of the
patient real nice you see this is how
simple it can be University of toine
Italy what else we have for you infinity
mat is scalable instruction tuning data
set in programmatic mathematical
reasoning yes reasoning today is all
over reasoning is our main topic and
they give us here a new data set for for
instruction tuning for
mathematics computation methodologies
programmatic mathematical reasoning data
augmentation data synthesis logical
inconsistencies very nice methodology
cre a new data
set what else do we
have fot self-explaining graph newal
networks you might say that sounds
simple published
today uh let's go here just make it a
little bit bigger so we all can read it
recent advancements in graph new network
have spurred an up search of research
dedicated to enhancing the
explainability of GNN particular and
critical domain such as medicine oh that
would be great so the aors propose here
a meter learning self-explaining graph
new network and novel framework that
generates explanation to support
predictions in few short sentences
explainability graph new network meta
learning okay we get the idea nice new
medical application absolutely great if
you have an explainable AI
structure what is next for us I've
chosen this here August 14
2024 do GPT language model suffer from
split personality disorder I thought the
title is funny because now we have
something that is strictly
applied to human I mean a personality
disorder should be a human somewhere in
the loop no and now we apply this human
term to a GPT and we say do language
model suffer from split personality this
order and this is an advent of substance
free psycho matrics psychometric
absolutely
fascinating I chosen this because there
was the faculty of Economics at the Kyo
University in Tokyo
then we have the psychometric Center
University of Cambridge no idea that
this exists The Faculty of Science and
Technology at Kaio
University
beautiful introduction yes I think this
is something to read and enjoy it
reading it just to relax what we have
else model merging yeah everything is
about model merging today and they have
here an overview of the methods the
theories and application and
opportunities if you merge all the
models that we have model merging also
know as model Fusion is an effective
technique that merges the parameter of
multiple separate models with different
capabilities to build a universal model
beautiful this is how you can do it AAL
learning model merging separate models
yes yes yes this is a very nice paper
just to read it on a nice afternoon and
this is funny because this caught my eye
neurons on a chip so we go beyond
conventional Sil silicon based Computing
and we go to bioc Computing emerges as
an promising alternative so Nvidia we go
now from your classical Nvidia silicon
based chips to either
pure Optical chips or I think an
interesting alternative is bio Computing
so if you're interested where bio
Computing is today's state-of-the-art in
bio Computing I thought this would be a
nice paper for you neural bio Computing
models have the potential to become an
alternative to Silicon based
computers okay do I have something left
I have one publication left for the end
yes I always like this format look it's
so beautiful here just make it a little
bit bigger we are talking here about
something absolute classical I have four
or five video videos on my Channel about
this multi-agent cooperative strategy
through heterogeneous and homogeneous
value decomposition strategies so this
is just to relax this is something that
we are familiar this is within my bubble
I hope it is also within your bubble of
learning so we are here about
multi-agent reinforcement learning so
beautifully you have you have the
keywords clearly at the beginning of
your publication please if you write a
new publication follow this idea it
makes it so much easier to immediately
understand what the paper is all about
value function factorization this is
what we're going to talk about having a
look at this paper of course it is based
since we're talking about multi-agent
reinforcement learning on a mock of
decision process and we have and this is
the speciality of this paper
heterogeneous
agents and yes you know multi-agent
reinforcement learning mall and
Cooperative Mall become solution for
many UNM robot cluster tasks yes
beautiful and you see exactly where this
is
going we investigate how to make the
learning process from Individual action
value function to the Joint action value
function more directional from A New
Perspective obtaining a more accurate
representation of the individual's
impact on the team of all those robots
and the authors of this paper propose
here a novel value value function
factorization methodology and they call
this the Q type mix which performs
hierarchical value DEC composition based
solely on agent types provided by the
environmental human input so if you want
to learn here about a new M methodology
this is the paper for you this is
beautiful this was the last one and I
hope you enjoyed it I wanted to go
outside of my learning bubble I wanted
to discover and show you new AI papers
published today August 12th August 14
2024 that I have no idea of that
stimulate me that say hey there's
something I do not know I want to learn
more about this I want to be able to
apply these new theories to my AI
application in all the different fields
and I hope you enjoyed it and maybe I
motivated you to continue learning to
add new knowledge because I think it
will be essential
especially if we move from AI 2.0 to
Quantum AI on Quantum Compu machines but
more about this in a later video